---
layout: post
title: I just watched "7 pounds"
date: 2009-12-14 06:40
author: woh3
comments: true
categories: [Life, Movie Review]
---
Well, I just saw the Will Smith movie "7 pounds", this movie was very emotionally intense, very dramatic, and yet...at the end of the day, it was F***ing CREEPY! A pathological organ donor?!?! Really?!?! Is that what passes for noble in this crazy age? I honestly feel that the writers could have picked <em>ONE</em> of the story lines and ran with it, and it would have been an infinitely better movie, but the way they did it, was just disturbing on so many levels. And suicide by a <strong>BOX JELLY</strong>? You gotta be kidding me, now I KNOW the writers were smoking something, <em>and </em>watching Animal Planet when they came up with that crap, this was basically a good movie, that was quite well acted, the only real failing in this movie was the writing, someone in the writers room didn't know when to tell this guy NO! He took what could have been an extremely noble and elegant character and motive, and turned it into something that <em>borders on horror</em>. I'm assuming here that the "pounds" in "7 pounds" refers to "pound of flesh" from Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice", well the "7" in the title refers to the Kevin Spacey film "se7en", because thats about how f-ing crazy Will Smith's character is in this movie. I'm almost tempted to guess that that's how this movie may have been pitched, but the idea just makes me shudder.

After watching this movie I was steeped in a fog of emotions, which I assumed at the time was some kind of emotional catharsis, but then I snapped out of it, and realized the abstract horror that the female love interest must have felt on the day when she found out who's heart she got, it's really the opposite of romantic if you think about it. When you finally get to the revelation of his great crime, which is built up to be quite significant, you discover that his terrible crime is using a cell phone while driving, SERIOUSLY, I'm not even kidding you, and what transpires in the movie is presumably the writers judgment on what should happen to such people. I don't know how Will Smith got tapped for something that in the end was as sophomoric this, but I wish he hadn't, without his star power blinding people about the real emotional intent of this movie, people won't be able to see it for the pure drivel that it really is.
